this was probably the most valuable
thing i ever learned in my life when i
was a kid uh my dad he was my coach
essentially is my dad you know you're
racing and you can turn around and look
in the go-kart and used to get so pissed
at me and he would say you look where
your eyes go so look forward don't turn
around
but isn't that a metaphor for everything
you look where your eyes go just like
where your mind goes wherever you set
your your your point of reference on
your your mental attention your focus
that is where you're going how are you
going to have a positive life from
negative thoughts you can't because
you're going to perpetuate more negative
thoughts and you're going to attract
vibrationally and frequency wise people
that are thinking that same way so if
you want to expand and grow and rise and
meet new people and do bigger better
things then you've got to think about
what you do want not what you don't want
so 100 if you're looking at the wall
you're going there
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is a record holder many
times over and one of the most
recognizable athletes on the planet her
list of accomplishments is so long we
would need an entire show just to read
them but here are just a few of the
highlights she's the first woman ever to
lead in an indycar race the first woman
ever to win an indycar race and when she
arrived on the scene she was only the
fourth woman ever to race in the
indianapolis 500 she's also the first
woman to hold pole position in the
daytona 500 and she's only the second
woman of all time to hold the pole
position in the indy racing league where
she was named the rookie of the year in
2005 championship she holds a record for
being the highest finishing female ever
in a nascar national stock car series
and she also holds the record for the
most top 10 finishes by any woman in the
history of sprint cup competition her
fourth place finish in the indy 500 is
also the highest ranking ever for a
woman she is tough and aggressive behind
the wheel and paul newman an
accomplished race car driver himself
said we will probably never see a female
driver like her again
she was named the female athlete of the
year by united sports academy she's
graced the cover of sports illustrated
and has proven with her book pretty
intense that her fitness extends well
beyond the racetrack recently retired
from racing she's launched two companies
warrior clothing insomniam vineyard in
deer park california proving beyond a
shadow of a doubt that she'll be
thriving long after the sound of her
final lap fades from memory so please
help me in welcoming the most successful
woman in the history of open wheel
racing
danica patrick
thank you
thank you for coming on thank you it's a
mouthful it is your list of
accomplishments is pretty ridiculous
i did finish third at indy one year too
so shame on me these are the
flagellation will be extreme i assure
you unfortunately the internet helped me
with some of those stats oh wikipedia
they've led me astray so we will yeah
we'll have to update that stuff but man
it really is crazy and it's extra crazy
when you think about what statistically
speaking makes you such a crazy underdog
which is one i'd love to know why do you
think there are so few women in
racing i mean i think it's just a matter
of your exposure so when you're when
you're a kid it's um i mean racing in
general is not the easiest thing to to
start out doing um you know somebody has
to know how to get you into a go-kart or
get you into a you know mini sprint or
some kind of a some something with an
engine and that's expensive it's
complicated you have to have technical
expertise in some way which my dad had
um so i think you have to have the
exposure and then you have to think of
it you know it's not a sport in school
right you don't just sign up for racing
so like you would sign up for basketball
or football or something like that so
i feel like it has to do with your
exposure really that that gives you the
idea so for myself my dad raced growing
up
and it was actually my sister who wanted
to do it she um
she uh she was eight and i was 10 years
old and there was somebody in her class
that race go-karts and they happened to
live in the neighborhood so we went down
and looked at the go-karts and and we
bought go-karts and
the rest is history so what is it about
you and your sister why didn't she
continue to pursue it the way that you
did
um because
she got bumped around a lot yeah she was
getting like driven over and let's just
face it it wasn't her calling i mean i
think that that's
at the end of the day you have to be
really really passionate about something
and really want something or something
about it that you know pushes you when
things get difficult and i've always
said that's kind of the difference
between
my success or me and some other people
is that
when it gets difficult i try harder
that's of course going to happen but
when it gets difficult again i try
harder and there's still some that'll
keep doing it but when it gets difficult
again i try harder and maybe you're down
to a few people so there's not really a
point in time that i didn't dig deeper
and try harder so yeah she wasn't slow
she just like she was getting driven
over and she just didn't really like it
what you just do is like my fetish so i
want to understand what makes you the
person that keeps going and going and
going and digging deeper and figuring
out like another gear to find when other
people don't because i really i have
that same thing and oh my god like once
i set my sights on something
forget it literally health be damned it
doesn't matter like if if it is in my
head that that is something i want then
i will keep ratcheting up and that's so
intoxicating and it makes my life so
beautiful and so joyous and i love it so
much
that and i know not everybody wants it
but the people that do like i want to
show them how to like dig deep
so how does that
you got a dream right i mean i'm sure
that when you find something that you
love to do you think how far could that
go
and you have to you have to do that
right you have to set some goals for
yourself
number one you want to find things that
you're good at right so probably not
gonna be a basketball player being five
foot one and a half i get that half at
five foot one
you know you've got to find things that
you're really good at and can thrive um
but then beyond that you have to dream
into how far it can go because if you
don't whether you think you can or you
think you can't you're right so if you
haven't even thought of an idea you for
sure can't because you haven't even
thought of it um and then you know then
it's a matter of uh time your book
pretty intense you go into the mindset
which is a pretty cool way to open the
book i really like that talk to me about
some of the key things that you've built
into your mindset that you think have
allowed you to win at such a high level
well i mean you know you you do have to
believe in yourself and i say that like
hesitantly because of course i have of
course i've lacked confidence from here
here and there i think that that's human
nature to have some doubt um
so i think that i think that you have to
find something that you really want and
you have to have that really
aspirational goal far in the distance so
that
the little things along the way aren't
such a big deal
you know and and it helps pull you into
the next event or the next year or the
next job or the next opportunity
and you can also look at things as a
learning experience at times
other than trying to make everything
successful i think that's a really
common thing that people experience and
do is that
you know they
they want this dream job or this dream
situation and they don't just get
started
like just get going go to school or get
a job or be an intern like it's probably
not going to go perfect but for sure
you'll learn you're always going to
learn even from the mistakes and
sometimes the mistakes teach you even
bigger lessons so um so that ability to
know that when it doesn't go well that
that's all just part of the journey
so i found that i was really like i
loved that part about about racing and
about really anything
is that the journey really is the fun
part because maybe you can relate when
you finally arrive somewhere
it's never enough anyway
right it's like what next
no question
walk me through that moment you're in a
bar at like 14 or something and this is
going great right
but you'll you'll know where i'm headed
in a minute i must have been in england
no you haven't gotten england yet but
you walk up to the british guy and you
start asking a bunch of questions about
racing in england you click something on
his mind he extends you an invitation
when you're ready to come to england
what i want to know about is the moment
that you actually decide to go to
england you said you're not a daredevil
so it's not just the devil may care
attitude but that's really ballsy you
drop out of high school
move away from your family go live on
your own at 16. like the thought of who
i was at 16 i was i would not have been
ready for that
um are you courageous is that something
that you cultivate in yourself
did you just not think it through like
what was that moment i i mean as far as
like the courageous part real quick like
i find a lot of satisfaction in
testing my limits
so it doesn't mean i'm not scared like
we were actually just talking about this
earlier today about cutting my hair and
i'm like i've never cut my hair in my
entire life and i just even even though
that's small
like i just love to push my comfort zone
just to know i can i've also bungee
jumped it's not something i love i don't
enjoy it it's not fun i'm scared of
heights but i love to know that i can
accomplish whatever it is that i need to
or want to no matter how big or scary it
is the espys hosting the espys last year
oh my god i was like
i'm not funny like how am i going to do
this and but i said yes because it
scared me as much as it excited me and i
was like gotta do it then i mean i i
think that um you know walking into that
it was the story about the bar i was 14
year old at the indianapolis motor
speedway i was in a turn two suite
which was owned by a wealthy guy
and he was helping another driver lin st
james a female driver and she was kind
of walking me around and helping me out
so she sent me up there and i sat down
at the bar in the suite
ordered my kitty cocktail and sat next
to this british guy and he was talking
about racing and
you know he's telling me i could learn
more in one year in england than five
years over here and i thought well that
sounds smart
um and so
two years later when i was 16 they
had kept up with my career and they'd
contacted us again and said hey we'd
like to have a meeting
so we almost didn't go i mean how
sliding doors central like we almost
didn't go as raining out as a four-hour
drive each way from where we lived in
illinois
and
we decided to go and the story of my
life would be that i always feel like i
always do the right like i can't say
always that's not true i usually do the
right thing and so we got in the car and
we went down there had the meeting and
then that fall they had told me you know
we've been following you and we'd like
to help you you know become a race car
driver and we'd like to send you to
england so i went over and tested a car
went over for the for the winter and
left school for a little while and did
what they call a winter series race and
um and then dropped out of high school
um soon after and when i was a junior
not the greatest advocate for school
yeah
you seem to have an inhuman ability to
focus
one just to be a good driver it seems
like you have to have an insane ability
to focus but two
with the amount of noise that must have
been around you coming into it um
to be able to shut that out and do your
thing is that is that something that you
would chalk up as an innate ability or
is that something that you've worked on
yeah you work on that um i think that's
probably focus at least from the
standpoint of driving the car was always
something i said that was a training
program the races when i was a kid were
eight laps and then there were 10 and
then they were 12 and then they were 20
and then they were 50 and you know then
you get into cars so you know that focus
grows and then all of a sudden you're at
the coke 600 for you know five plus
hours or the southern 500 or the indy
500 for four hours and you you know that
focus you don't know how to do that out
of the box
so there's that focus um that is
something that's nurtured and grown and
then the ability itself to just block
out the noise um you know i i feel like
yes it's possible to be insecure and i
think that the reason why i didn't get
insecure about the
people were saying about me was
because i was doing my best i was trying
hard i was putting in the effort
um there wasn't anything i wasn't
prepared to do to make it all happen and
so if you're a lazy person
and you don't do what you think you
should be doing then when somebody says
something bad you're gonna feel insecure
because you know exactly how you could
have done better so i didn't leave those
things to chance like i didn't leave
myself open for criticism in a way that
would be
you know highly
insulting to me i did the work
uh i think that's valuable i think
that's an important lesson if you're
gonna do something and not be offended
when you're putting in your best work
what am i gonna do just not like myself
i mean there's times i don't like myself
but
you know there's that's the alternative
is to just not like yourself even though
you've been doing your best which
doesn't usually happen so you gotta put
the effort in
when i think about going all in on
something putting in the effort
to me it's driven by
that what you said you've got to want
something like there's got to be
something that you're driven by whether
it's a dream or whatever what makes you
cultivate that like do you find that
life is better when you have some
intense thing that you're chasing like
you've launched two businesses recently
um
there's there's obviously a sense for
you of either wanting to do things that
you just enjoy
intrinsically or once you make it a
company it seems like maybe there's
something more to it than that like what
is the organizing principle of your mind
like for me mine is i need to matter
that's very important to me so whatever
i do and i'm not saying that's good or
bad i'm saying it is true i need to
matter i have invested a lot of putting
value on that deciding that it's
something i want to care about deciding
it needs to be a part of my life and
because of that i get a huge like
neurochemical reward when i do things
that i see echoing through the world so
that's a big thing for me i always
pursue that um do you have something
like that like you've worked so
hard to get where you are like yeah why
try so hard
yeah every now and again i think to
myself
i could just do nothing
i'm sure you've thought the same thing
from time to time just do nothing in
fact people were asking me at the end of
my career they're like oh these
companies that are launching is this
your backup plan i'm like that's cute
but i don't really need one
i mean i'm just being honest like i have
been very fortunate in my career i don't
need a backup plan but i tell you what
really every company i have
is super organic even racing like it
just happened i was 10 you know i surely
wasn't funding it so
whether it was my wine company that
started
in 2009 somnium it means dream in latin
and that's because i was just standing
over a grassy knoll at
quintessa vineyards in in napa looking
south to the fog pulling down into the
back into san francisco drinking at 10
a.m
and uh and thinking god
i want something like this someday
and then it happened
it's literally what i thought i want
something like this someday
bought the property that was 2006. the
first vintage 14 was sold in 17.
long project that's why i think a lot of
winemakers are fairly older a lot of
proprietors because they don't have the
money to do it until they're older
because it's a long process but that's
somnium and it means dream you know the
clothing line was just because i love
being creative i actually went into
the the company that was producing it
and talked about making clothes for the
racetrack and they heard my passion for
design
and my interest in clothes and that
whole world
the artistic side of me and they never
they never had a sketch of one single
race t-shirt it was all just clothes for
everyday life so they heard my interest
loud and clear um that that went bit way
beyond just the race track um i mean my
book pretty intense was um really just
because i i really attribute it to
posting one yoga picture so many years
ago on instagram and people loved it and
then posted more and it like
if of everything that i do it's really
not actually the bulk of what i do but
people people see that they love it it
resonates they're interested it's
aesthetically pretty you know they and
it made it gave me a reputation for
being into fitness and i'm like god i've
always done this i've worked out since i
was 14 years old for racing so that kind
of started it all and then there was
someone who was interested in writing a
health and fitness book and i'm like
okay
the question was do i want to write one
and i was like
yeah i think i have finally something to
say
you know health and fitness and wellness
and waking up and and and taking care of
yourself and enjoying life
is um you know really what i stand for
now so that's a super long story of all
my companies but um
bottom line is is they were all born
from an idea or a passion they were not
like
i want to make money let's do this now
it doesn't mean i haven't taken
endorsements in the past that were about
money but it um
it doesn't mean that i will start a
company unless i truly believe in it and
i am ready for it and i'm ready for the
work because of course it's the journey
it's not i mean if i think that if you
attach yourself to
i'm going to call it like a
impure goal almost of making money or
something like that i think you're too
short-sighted and i think that um
i don't i think you inherently block
that actually
you make the wrong choices because
you're thinking too short-term or too
small
do you have any rules to
a journey that you're about to go and
like
um i don't want to think small i'm going
to think big it has to be fun in the
moment or like what are the guiding
principles that you use
intuition
i mean it just has to feel right there's
been plenty of projects that i've been
like theoretically interested in
figuring out how to make into something
and um nothing has ever nothing's felt
right for a few different things and um
i i think you have to learn how to
identify the flow of life which i'm
definitely learning as i'm up i'm one of
those people that likes to force things
to happen
yes force them to happen they're gonna
but here's the thing yes you need to try
harder and you need effort and you need
to push at times that's very important
but you have to learn that when you keep
hitting a wall with something and oh
this isn't right and this isn't working
and
this is so that person's wrong and
that's happening and oh now this
when you start to like bump up against a
bunch of those things that just don't
feel like it's flowing and you kind of
have to wake up and realize maybe this
isn't for me
and that's kind of actually what
happened with my career even was
there was tons of things starting with
losing my primary sponsor which was no
problem i had ever had in the past that
started me to wake up to realize these
other things and then to notice oh my
gosh i have all these other companies
that need attention that could be really
fun you start finding evidence of how
it's not the flow anymore so you know i
didn't make a huge effort i very much
was a like i was really really letting
it flow when it came to a sponsorship
situation in 2017 to move forward into
18 and when things just
it just didn't flow right i'm like it's
okay
just gotta let it go so the way i
described my retirement is that i i had
to learn how to let go i didn't feel
like i was quitting because i could have
pushed and made it happen
and compromised and taken a smaller
salary or gone to a different team or
something like that but i was like no
i'm just gonna let go
and so letting go for you are you
somebody who embraces change do you have
a hard time with change it certainly
seemed like at the end of the career it
was relatively easy for you i mean i cut
my hair for the first time i'm totally
good with change i mean this is like the
epicenter of like whoa danica you're
totally okay with change i think i react
probably like every human being when it
comes to something dramatic and big it's
somewhat
uh shocking and uh scary and you're not
up for it i remember when when my
sponsor had left the first thought was
oh no i'm not ready oh no i'm not ready
and actually i'm ready to retire not
ready to retire and i remember thinking
that feels good to say that oh yeah i'm
not ready
um now that evolved and changed but i
think that um
you know it's uh you know you really
have to pay attention to the way you
feel about a situation and um you know
feel if it's right for you and whether
or not you need to keep keep moving
talk to me about how you force things
i'm guessing judging by the outcome that
you're quite adept at figuring out how
to push
how did you make your racing career
happen and i get there was probably a
lot of intuition and um you know
opportunities presenting that you take
advantage of but
where were the moments of push how can
people leverage that in their life
because this is one thing that like in
so we just launched impact theory
university and one of the things
thank you i'm psychotic about this i
think it really has potential not super
smart but i'd love to be a professor hey
you we'll film today actually let's just
get off on a tangent real quick please
about about school yeah right school
curriculum
sucks
i'm so glad i didn't waste my time with
it because like
who uses geometry who uses like human
anatomy class and we're not like i mean
if you want to be a doctor please go to
go to school
uh right i want you to have some
experience cutting a frog open before me
but you know there's certain things that
it's important but you know where's the
class on where's the meditation class
where's the manifesting class like
where's the where's the real life stuff
that you know
scares me to think we're getting away
from pe i mean a pull-up could save your
life you can fall for cliff and need a
pull-up you know i mean these are the
things that can really make a difference
in your life um so i don't know do you i
mean now that you're starting out in
university yes what are your thoughts on
school uh my thoughts are uber intense
and so i'll give you a snippet with the
well i'm pretty intense so it just falls
right into the line nice so my thing is
i think that uh humans can't change
about 50 of what they do and are and
that's why i find you and your sister so
fascinating i'd be so curious to know
how much of that was the 50 that's
unchangeable and how much is the 50 that
is completely malleable and the 50 that
is completely malleable could change
your life so radically um and there are
universal principles of success there
are just certain ways that people should
think and one of them
my friend dear professor of how to push
is the ability to get done so the
title of your biography was danica
patrick crosses the line
get over the finish line and i
find so often people to your point they
don't want anything and so they don't
put the energy to get something across
the finish line and that that really
with me because i think that
that's born of the 50 that is changeable
so it's like overhearing wanting
something yes like you have a belief
system that that you don't even realize
you have you don't realize you
assimilated beliefs the entire time you
were growing up so like somewhere along
the line you decided that you could do
this i mean you literally said if
you think you can you can if you think
you can't you can't so one you've
cobbled together this really
interesting mindset which you lay out in
your book so i know it's real two your
life is a pretty clear reflection of
this stuff so my thing is like
since you know how to push
what like what is it i know some of it's
intuition i'm not i'm going to rob you
of that answer beyond intuition okay
what is this um it's actually the
hardest one because you have to find a
way to
authentically
not just lip service
but authentically
believe you can do it
which is hard because doubt is i mean
how many times does our mind race about
doubt whether it's in work or
relationship or anything you know how do
you deal with it
well first you have to be passionate
about something
and then you have to set the right goal
right
the goal of like i want to make a
difference i believe i can make a
difference or i want to make amazing
wine i believe i can do that i know i
can do that um
you know you you but you you have to
you've got to use some neuroplasticity
and get that mind changed you have
to retrain your brain and put the right
uh podcast in front of you the right tv
shows the right people around you read
the right books
write in your journal
write down what you want i mean how many
times have we i've look at how many
times i've written down something i want
i'm like oh my god i got it you know
it's scary so i think that there's some
magic in there um but it's really about
retraining your brain to believe
something is possible so i think that
you can fake it till you believe it and
but you but there has to be a way where
you authentically believe you can do it
do you have an example so the fake it
till you make it thing is something
really really interesting to me and i
think that um people get misled by the
words they hear fake and they think oh
this is never going to work but it's a
fundamental misunderstanding of the way
the human mind works and so the fact
that you brought a brain plasticity is
extraordinary
your brain can't tell the difference
between a truth and a lie essentially if
you can visualize an experience that
hasn't happened
you know in your brain it can't tell the
difference so now keep repeating that
and
you're retraining your brain
that's pretty crazy did you use to
visualize the races yeah i did when i
was kid in go-karts i would sit there on
the sit there on the cooler and close my
eyes and i would visualize the perfect
lap
like once or twice at least and
especially before qualifying as i got
older um i would i would visualize the
perfect lap of how i wanted it to go and
how i wanted the car to feel how do you
deal with pressure there's so much
pressure going into a race so many eyes
on you sponsors dollars on the line
how do you tune that out or how do you
process it what do you do with that race
car drivers have a big job in the sense
that uh before the race like we
entertain sponsors you're going to do
meet and greets you're standing at the
car getting photos before the race
starts so you know you really have to be
able to compartmentalize
that and then the job and be able to
flip the switch back and forth between
like hey how you doing nice to meet you
good you wanna get a picture cool all
right hi how are you oh are you good
okay cool and that was a kid by the way
and um and then you know take your
picture and then be able to get in the
car and just
you know
i will say that anybody i met at the
race track and they tell me oh i met you
at a race i'm like yeah i usually
remember those people probably because i
was only allowing a certain amount of
mental energy to be you know attentive
to them um uh yeah you have to flip the
switch back and forth for sure a lot do
you have a ritual for that how do you
actually flip the switch um
you have to have enough emotional energy
to do it right so i felt like if i was
tapped
with the entertaining side of things it
made it harder to stay be able to get
into the focus state or st or kind of
stay in it essentially but like pop into
these moments of when i had to do
something else for me i have to i have
to be able to maintain enough energy so
a lot of the things that i had to do
with is like just knowing yourself and
knowing that okay if i go out to dinner
and hang out with everybody and then
there's a bunch of people at the
racetrack i have to entertain like you
have to have the discretion and the and
the awareness to be able to like say no
to one thing or another thing or be able
to go inside the bus and not feel guilty
that you're not hanging out with
everybody outside and just know that
that's because you have to protect your
energy if you're going to be able to do
everything that you need to do that day
and essentially it came down to really
just the obligations do you do you have
other things like that that you use to
to be able to move so swiftly from one
area of your life to another um
i'm not a big fan of like
911 fire drill kind of stuff so i like
to get in the mindset right so i like to
know what i need what i have to do um
which is a trouble which is hard to flow
because you know you're like oh this is
what's gonna happen this is my story on
expectation levels i have this
expression this saying for myself that
expectations are a mother you know what
because
when they're not met you're disappointed
but i do feel like when i it helps me to
get into a mindset or a space a mental
space when i set my mind on something
another example would be like even from
a broader spectrum
mind situation would be when i finished
racing i you know you know didn't i i i
wasn't like when i was racing i was
scared of what was going on but go to
the indy 500 this year and i was part of
the broadcast and people had asked about
the fear part and
i was much more aware of it then because
i
i know what how hard it was i know how
fast we were going and i'm watching
everybody do it and i'm like god i was
brave
not
no not brave danica there um but uh it
wasn't something i allowed into my
mental space so there's certain
situations i think that you have going
on where you're just not allowed to
think about it right if you've got a
huge week and you're really busy
you wrap your head around that right
just like i had to wrap my head around
everything but the fact that it was
super dangerous so
i don't know
this is one of those things certain
things if you want to talk about a
chorus that you could charge a lot of
money for it would be how to when
somebody tells you don't think about a
pink elephant to actually not think
about the pink elephant because as
you're going towards the race your mind
wants to throw up all the fear all the
danger all of that and if that's the one
thing you can't think of in fact here's
the example that i use and it's perfect
you can tell me this is actually true i
always tell people
if you were going to be a race car
driver they tell you not to look at the
wall because you're going to end up
crashing into it specifically because
you're looking at it do they actually
tell you that do you avoid looking at
the wall when i was a kid uh my dad
he was my coach essentially is my dad of
course he's my coach she still tries to
be my coach
for anything um but
you know you're racing and you can turn
around and look in the go-kart and used
to get so pissed at me and he would say
and i actually used this was probably
the most valuable thing i ever learned
in my life because it was more of it was
a metaphor for everything
and he said you look where your eyes go
and i was like
and he's like so look forward don't turn
around and i was like
okay
but isn't that a metaphor for everything
you look where your eyes go just like
where your mind goes you wherever you
set your your your point of reference on
your your mental attention your focus
that is where you're going how are you
going to have a positive life from
negative thoughts you can't
because you're going to perpetuate more
negative thoughts and you're going to
attract vibrationally and frequency wise
people that are thinking that same way
so if you want to expand and grow and
rise and meet new people and do better
the bigger better things then you've got
to think about what you do want not what
you don't want so 100 if you're looking
at the wall you're going there
yeah that makes all the sense in the
world to me so you're on the cooler eyes
are closed you're imagining the track
um and whatever the future version of
that is what is the thing that you're
putting your energy into to make sure
that you don't have the extra focus to
let the fear in is it is it truly just a
visualization of the the way that the
laps go the way the car feels is there
something else um and how can people
apply that to whatever they do which
probably isn't race car driving
but i think it applies to everything you
know like the the the putting your focus
on what it is that you do want so i do
obviously i don't race anymore but you
know for me i many mornings i wake up
and it's because i wake up early early
and i'm drinking my coffee by myself
but i'll start writing down certain
things that are working for me but and
i'll almost try and avoid the things
that aren't working for me and i'll just
think about what i want and feelings i
want to have and goals that i have and
you know i almost try and keep them a
little broad spectrum towards an emotion
or feeling as opposed to
an attachment to a specific outcome
because i'm not the universe i don't
know how it's supposed to go and who's
to say that my idea of the right outcome
is right maybe there's a better way so
attach yourself to
and you're focused to the kind of
feeling you want to have and the things
that you want to do with your life and
you know whether it's inspire kids or
you know uh help people expand their
mind or things that you want to do feel
like you want adventure you want you
know joy you want passion you want
excitement whatever it is and then let
the universe find the very best way to
experience all those feelings that
you've set the intention for
so it sounds like you journal quite a
bit how long have you been doing that
um i actually remember writing a lot
when i was younger then i didn't for a
while so that's much more common now i
find that especially
i mean i've it's been it's been years
but um more now more since i've stopped
racing
and this is a way to control your focus
yeah
um that's interesting i've never heard
anybody that
focuses primarily on the emotions that
they want to feel that's interesting do
you believe in fate
such an interesting topic i mean fate
would assume that it's predestined yes
that's what i'm asking
i'm one of those people that is
always evolving and i'm happy to
say that what i thought in the past is
not what i think now and i don't feel
like i'm being hypocritical i'm just
learning and growing and experiencing
and taking in additional information
because you can only make decisions
based on the information you have and so
when you get more you have to be ready
to make a new decision
so um
i mean i believe fate based on
your frequency
can you define frequency for me
uh your sort of your your vibration
level your energy your is that dictated
by thought
yeah
thought and positive thoughts
i can't remember what the scale is
called but basically for the thoughts
that you have you know the
the middle bottom being like envy greed
fear jealousy and then above that middle
threshold uh is
love and you know generosity and
gratefulness and kindness and joy
those being the higher frequency
energies and so for me i try and focus
on the higher ones because that's what i
want to attract more of
so i think that if you are operating in
a lower vibrational state based on your
negative energy that you're you're
repeating over and over again and
telling yourself certain stories over
and over again and um and believing then
that's kind of your fate your fate will
be dictated by the thoughts that you
have reoccurring in your mind
man that was so i guess interesting
there's maybe not pure faith then to
give because i don't like to not give an
answer so no that was amazing i think
it's hard for me to wrap my head around
you don't have control
but man
i mean i believe in reincarnation really
yeah so i mean as far as like coming
into this lifetime and learning certain
lessons
i guess what i would feel about that is
that you're when you come back into this
life like you come back and you're i
believe my job is to learn and grow and
it shouldn't be easy if it's difficult
you're probably getting better um
because there's no growth without pain
otherwise you just status quo
so the biggest growth for me has always
come through total difficulty total
challenge total
effing mess total crying you know like
all the stuff that's super difficult
why through pain and what are some
lessons you've learned through pain
well because you're essentially breaking
um
you know patterns
um you're having new thoughts you're
having to the old ones are gonna have to
die
like i always think like as far as an
example would be like a relationship you
know relationship ending is you know sad
right and but
what if the a better one's coming
what if that's all you thought about
pretty good stuff then you're like see
ya
but we're attached to the the idea that
we had in our head for so long we're
attached to we have to let the ideas and
dreams that we have we have to let them
die and that dying process is hard
i think that's the painful part so is
some of the pain losing like changing
your job like i'll never see these
people again and oh my god what if i
don't get a better job and what if i
don't get paid and while you're thinking
about is all the stuff that's bad what
if you're going to get a better job and
you get paid more money and you're going
to meet new people and you're going to
move to a place you'd rather live and
and is that what you're telling yourself
as you're going through this do you
rapidly switch
the narrative so you had asked earlier
about change and i lost my train of
thought so if it didn't sound like my
answer was good that's why um i lost my
chainsaw on change and so i immediately
think like everyone else would change
i'm like ah wow that sucks
um but then i i i think i have the
ability to flip the switch pretty
quickly to it could be better than i
ever expect
i have no idea how that's going to look
but how will i ever know if i don't give
it a shot
it's really powerful so
looking at the level of success that
you've had i know there's going to be a
lot of things but if you had to
just put one
thing about you
that is like the pinnacle trait the
thing that without that definitively
everything else would fall apart and
again knowing that it's it's actually
several things but um what would you say
is at the very top
well it's tough to tell the difference
between a dream and determination
i don't think it really matters if you
have determination without a purpose so
probably dream i would have always said
determination because i kind of was just
doing one thing
but
yeah i just have the ability to dream
into things and believe it's possible
i like that where can people find out
more about you
um
well i mean social media social media is
a great thing for that i mean you know
especially for me at this point in my
career where i'm not on tv every single
weekend for a few days and don't have a
microphone stuck in my face social media
is a great platform for that as far as
instagram which is the one i'm mostly
involved on and twitter and facebook we
post a lot more broad spectrum stuff on
facebook
and then um you know i have a website
and it's all my name and pretty soon the
podcast is coming out which will just
really show more of me and the things
that i believe in and and also of course
like how can i not think how the hell
did i get here
and then try and share that
i love that i'm super excited for your
podcast no thank you
all right
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
i want to wake people up to their
potential
i want to wake them up to realizing that
we could have argued about this but you
said 50
is there 50 is available for your own to
make it to make a change but
you know i i would argue that anything
is possible
and that
we are all one decision away from an
entirely different life
i couldn't agree more
guys
endlessly fascinating you are definitely
going to want to dive into her world
it's really really extraordinary if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care danica that was amazing thank
you so much
that was wonderful if you want something
if you have a passion in your heart fire
in your belly it's gonna be you
it's gonna be you getting up early it's
gonna be you staying up late it's gonna
be you running the miles and and going
to the gym and eating the kale and doing
all the crap that you don't it's only
going to be you